Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2016-10-14T11:38:43-06:00

====== Preface Notes ======
Created Friday 14 October 2016

Front Matter-Overview
3. Introduction: Write about the people who speak the language and where it is spoken.
In the language itself, the language name is pronounced Nkunyá. A single speaker is an Okunyáyin with the plural being Nkunyáfɔ. The land where they live is also called Nkunyá. They live mainly in about 13 towns in the Volta Region, bordering on Lake Volta, between 7° 5" N and 7° 17" N and between 0° 15" E and 0° 22" E. This is an area along the Kpando-Worawora road from about 11 km north of Kpando up to (but not including) Kwamekrom, 34 km north of Kpando. The official ISO code (ISO 639-3) for Nkonya is nko.

	Nkonya is a language spoken by a group of people in the Volta Region of Ghana. There are about 25,000 people in the Nkonya area, of whom perhaps 14,000 speak Nkonya as their first language. The majority of the non-Nkonya residents speak Ewe. There are a large number of Nkonyas living outside Nkonya, perhaps as many as live in the traditional area.
	
4. Foreword (Optional): write about other versions of the dictionary, future plans about publishing, and so on.
	History of the Dictionary
This dictionary has been been a work in progress for over twenty years. It has been published on the web for over a decade on the Nkonya Language Website at nkonya.wycliffe.ca. The version there is a previous version of this dictionary.
	
There have been two publications available at nkonya.wycliffe.ca, one as printable PDFs and the other a series of linked web pages. The web pages and PDFs were generated by a program called Lexique Pro. There have been two major versions of the dictionary, with different semantic domain categories. The original semantic domain scheme was devised by Dr Tony Naden. In 2016, the semantic domain categories were changed to the one documented at semdom.org. Over the years the data in the dictionary has been managed by the Linguist's Toolbox program. The raw Toolbox files have been available publicly at https://github.com/WesPeacock/nkonyadictionary/ 
	
In 2017 the Nkonya dictionary was converted to the SIL Fieldworks Language Explorer (FLEx) program available at [[software.sil.org/fieldworks/.]] The Toolbox version of the dictiona was frozen in Sept. 2017 and all future work on the dictionary will be done in FLEx. 

	Future Plans
	Nkonyas have a proverb:
		Bʋ tɛlɩɩ oyi nɔhɛsʋ kun tswiihɛ. "They stand on a crooked stick to cut a straight one."
	The meaning of the proverb is that one must accept something less than perfect in order to get something better.
	
	Here are some of the changes that are planned for the dictionary.
	* In 2014, a workshop was held to enhance the dictionary. Not all of the entry information from that workshop has been added.
	* Many of the entries have compare lexical relations with another entry Many of these should should be complex entries
	* There are many idioms & words used in the ongoing Old Testament translation that should be included in the dictionary.
	* Many of the entries and example sentences have been recorded. The audio versions of these will be linked into the dictionary.
	* Some example sentences are redundant
	* Many entries need examples sentences

5. Copyright: Make sure the Copyright page is filled in appropriately, and the name of copyright holder and copyright date matches wherever these occur.
	Check the other GILLBT dictionary publications
6. Credits and Acknowledgments: Make sure all people who contributed to this publication are listed.
	Check the phonology paper.
7. Alphabet: List the entire alphabet for this language.

8. Abbreviations: List all the abbreviations used in the dictionary.
		allo. var.	allophonic variant
		ant	antonym
		adj	adjective
		adj-er	adjectivizer
		adv.	adverb
		art.	article
		aux.	auxiliary
		cf	compare
		cfx	circumfix (prefix + suffix)
		CNJ	conjuction
		comp.	compound
		CONN	connective
		contr.	contraction
		DEIC	deictic
		der.	derivative
		dial. var.	dialect variant
		id.	idiom
		interj	interjection
		LOC	locative
		n	noun
		nclf	noun classifier
		NOMR	nominalizer
		NUM	number
		pfx	prefix
		ph. v.	phrasal verb
		pl.	plural
		POST	post-position
		pro	pronoun
		PropN	proper noun
		PTCL	particle
		Q	question
		sem. domain	semantic domain
		sfx	suffix
		sg.	singular
		sp. var.	spelling variant
		gen	generic
		spec	specific
		syn	synonym
		TAM	tense marker
		unspec. var.	unspecified variant
		unspec. comp. form	unspecified complex form
		VOC	vocative
		v	verb

9. Entry Explained: Give a short explanation of what to expect in a typical entry.





Phonetic notation
	ɪ & ʊ and how they aren't the same as English See Peacock (2007) section 2.4, especially 2.4.3.3
	ː is lengthening
	ʔ glottal stop
	
Tonal Sandhi
	trailing High docks on nɩ́, ámʋ
	Tone in verbs as in la or tɛ
	See 

9 vowels vs 7
	Akan orthographies only mark 7 vowels
	Akan borrowed words are spelled in the Nkonya orthograpy 

Dialect Issues
	- ɔ- / ɛ- 
	- nasalization
	- other variation
		-Southerners borrow more from Ewe; Northerners from Twi

ATR allophonic variation
	brief explanation of ATR
	ny as +ATR 
	
Bibliography
	Reinecke
		Reineke, Brigitte. 1972. The Structure of the Nkonya Language with Texts and 
		Glossary. Leipzig: Verlag Enzyclopaedie.
	Stewart
		Stewart, John M. 1966. Awutu, Larteh, Nkonya and Krachi with Glosses in English and Twi. (Comparative African Wordlists, 1). Legon, Ghana: Institute of 
		African Studies, University of Ghana.
	Peacock
		Peacock, Wesley. 2007. The phonology of Nkonya. (Collected Language Notes, 27). Legon, Ghana: Institute of African Studies, University of Ghana. 

